HF+AMD turin blog (#2410)
huggingface/blog: huggingface-amd-turin.md

---
title: "Introducing the AMD 5th Gen EPYC™ CPU"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/optimum_amd/amd_hf_logo_fixed.png
authors:
- user: mohitsha
- user: mfuntowicz
---

# Introducing the AMD 5th Gen EPYC™ CPU

AMD has just unveiled its 5th generation of server-grade EPYC CPU based on Zen5 architecture - also known as `Turin`. It provides a significant boost in performance, especially with a higher number of core count reaching up to `192` and `384` threads.

From Large Language Models (LLMs) to RAG scenarios, Hugging Face users can leverage this new generation of servers to enhance their performance capabilities: 
1. Reduce the target latency of their deployments.
2. Increase the maximum throughput.
3. Lower the operational costs.

During the last few weeks, we have been working with AMD to validate that the Hugging Face ecosystem is fully supported on this new CPU generation and delivers the expected performance across different tasks.

Also, we have been cooking some exciting new ways to leverage `torch.compile` for AMD CPU through the use of `AMD ZenDNN PyTorch plugin (zentorch)` to speed up even more the kind of workloads we will be discussing after.

> While we were able to get early access to this work to test Hugging Face models and libraries and share with you performances, we expect AMD to make it soon available to the community - stay tuned!, we are hard at work to make it a reality for all our users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we were able to get early access to this work to test Hugging Face models and libraries and share with you performance, we expect AMD to make it soon available to the community - stay tuned!
```

To ensure optimal performance, we used the `bfloat16` data type and employed `ZenDNN 5.0`. We configured multi-instance setups that enable the parallel execution of multiple [Meta LLaMA 3.1 8B](https://huggingface.co/meta-llama/Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct) model instances spawning across all the cores. Each model instance is allocated 32 physical cores per socket, allowing us to leverage the full processing power of the servers for efficient data handling and computational speed.

We ran the benchmarks  using two different batch sizes—16 and 32—across five distinct use cases: 
- Summarization (1024 input tokens / 128 output tokens)
- Chatbot (128 input tokens / 128 output tokens)
- Translation (1024 input tokens / 1024 output tokens)
- Essay Writing (128 input tokens / 1024 output tokens)
- Live Captioning (16 input tokens / 16 output tokens). 

> These configurations not only facilitates a comprehensive analysis of how each server performs under varying workloads but also simulates real-world applications of LLMs. Specifically, we plot the decode throughput (excluding the first token) for each use case, to illustrate performance differences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These configurations not only facilitate a comprehensive analysis of how each server performs under varying workloads but also simulate real-world applications of LLMs. Specifically, we plot the decode throughput (excluding the first token) for each use case, to illustrate performance differences.
```
